We are very pleased to welcome you to the first OPEN STUDIO of 2020!

We are a multidisciplinary design studio specialized in contemporary art and sculptural installations. Our main task is to explore the technical and artistic possibilities of art in the climate change discourse. In our Open Studio Program we invite you to our in-house ceramic atelier and give insight to our current projects and artist talks.
Discover our latest collection revolving around nature, biodiversity & habitats.
LANDSCAPES & HABITATS
24.02. - 01.03.2020
​
Local solutions to hyper-globalized problems. A paradox of our consumer elevated times and a net - negative legacy. 

The coral installation project resulted from a dialogue with seemingly competing fields: fisheries and marine protected areas managers.

​

Declining bio mass and habitats, family owned fisheries and conservation efforts materialized in one arteafct. Combining contrasting realities into one visually compelling object. 

The translucent and ethereal sculptures stand in stark contrast to soft, colorful and fragrant real flowers. The rigid petals, seemingly frozen in time, won't follow the seasons, won't bloom and fall off, won't nourish and sustain life. They will forever be unmoving and cold to the touch like a taxidermy exponent. And yet, every time the gaze falls upon the sculpture mounted on the wall, real flowers come to mind, lush gardens and the sound of fountains, birds and bees. 

The series of sculptural porcelain flowers are meant to be combined with house plants into living works of art. To combine art with the practical and useful. 

Footed bowls, plates and planters with highly stylized coral decorations are in equal parts domestic items and pieces of art. 

​

Artefacts Atelier artists believe that function and decoration are equally valuable and two sides of the same coin. This dual quality is explored in a series of functional art. Botanical concepts are employed in shape and function in order to create multi-use items that blur the lines between art and functional pieces. Part of the marine & functional series is the coral bowl, featuring a decorated foot and an irregular shaped upper part. Both pieces are detachable and can be used separately. The botanical function is achieved by using the bowl as a planter. The sculpted plug in the middle is removable, allowing excess water to drain in the foot.The celadon blue glaze with green accents are reminiscent of the colors of the sea. Small ponds and pools are gathering around the foot of the bowl like a cluster of shells and mussels gathering at the seashore, under boots, pillars and pier structures.

Unmoving, eery and bleached - and yet delicate and enduringly beautiful. 

This series of porcelain made landscapes are bridging the distance between city dwellers and the coral reef crisis. It captivates the eye, slows down, winds back the speed of visual consumption.